Don't get the last word, get the last good word
  The last person to respond is not the winner, the person who was most convincing is.
  Make all of your arguments strong so you will be convincing, When they respond hastily with a weak argument, there is no need to go on.
  Simply don't continue the argument (any response at all is likely to just perpetuate the conversation, which just turns readers off
  and dilutes the strength of your previous point) The last word isn't an advantage, the best word is. This is the best way to end the debate.

Don't respond to every single point, pick two or three at most
  You will be the only person who reads a very long response. Your opponent won't read it, neither will anyone else. Ensure your response is
  short enough to be worth reading, ensure your signal to noise ratio is very high. This puts you in a position to end the debate as soon
  as they make a weak argument. Do this by focusing on the points that are most relevant (this makes for a discussion worth reading)
  or that you are most confident in (allows you to express your core points), or that they are particularly weak in (shows your audience how bad their argument is).

  Don't address their trivial points, their silly errors, their spelling, don't devolve to pedantry, keep your content relevant,
  keep your points compelling.

check your sources
  Don't make bad arguments. One aspect of this is to not say false things. You avoid saying false things by looking up those references.
  If you can't find the reference, consider whether you really want to make that point (if they challenge it, you will have to find it or
  appear discredited)

Don't be afraid to change your mind
  We are in search of the truth, right? You must be willing to change your mind in order to understand their argument. You must acknowledge
  that they could be correct, so that you can come to the truth, if they are. Refusing to change your mind means you are a bigot.
  If you are a bigot, then it doesn't matter if you are right or not, it's incidental.

Don't be afraid to admit you are wrong
  If they are right and you know it, then you are arguing against the truth. Is that the position you want to be in?
  Furthermore, aren't you a liar if you won't acknowledge it? If you are a liar, then do your arguments have merit? The truth is more important
  than your pride. That's not to say you have to just come out and admit every place you make a mistake, keep in mind the part about responding
  to only a small number of points. You don't want to waste your words backpeddling on tiny issues. Own up if it's a big point, or if they just
  can't get past it (this is a strong indicator of your opponent's immaturity). Otherwise, acknowledge to yourself that you were wrong, and don't
  make that faulty argument again.

Don't argue for too long
  Keep in mind signal to noise ratio. The longer you argue, the less likely your arguments are to be relevant. After you've made a point, you
  don't need to keep making it. It doesn't matter if they ignore it and say the same thing again, you already addressed that, and observers
  read it. Don't overwhelm your readers by being verbose, don't water down the content by being repetitive, or dealing with trivial points.
  Remember, you want people to read your points.

know why you are arguing
  For you?
    Sometimes you need to join a position so that you can become educated about its arguments. Sometimes so that you can verify that you
    really are confident in your position on the topic. Sometimes so that you can have someone else challenge your assertions to identify
    and weed out their weaknesses. These are for you, and many of the above positions do not apply here. Be verbose, address all their points,
    explore the domain, that's the whole point.
  For them?
    This is a losing game. You will not convince someone who does not want to be convinced. If that is your intent, then it is futile.
    You may change their perspective, you may shake their confidence, but changes of opinions will come later, when they feel comfortable
    considering your arguments. You can make progress, but it won't be measured in miles, it will be measured in inches. Don't expect
    to see them change, it is futile.
  For readers? (to convince people on the fence)
    This is probably your best choice. Your readers are not engaged in the conversation, they have not publically stated a side, they do
    not have pride standing in the way of reason. Cater to these people, there are many more of them than the adversaries you are arguing with.
    They are more open to change. This is why you will do most of the above things.

Don't attack the person
  You only have a limited space to make an argument, use it to make yoru argument. Attacking the person is weak, you can do that even when
  you are wrong so it is an incredibly weak point. Don't waste your words with ad hominems. Don't mock your opponent, that makes them and
  your readers less receptive to your point.

Don't respond to personal attacks
  If they attack you, ignore it. For the same reason it is bad when you attack them, it is also bad when they attack you. Let them make
  that mistake. Dropping into the childishness of it just dilutes your responses, keep your responses sharp and short.

